btrfs-backup/README.md, before:

btrfs-backup
============

Purpose
-------

**btrfs-backup** is a program that can be used to backup data from one
or multiple btrfs file systems. It relies on the btrfs(8) utility
program to perform its job and provides a very simple interface for
quick btrfs snapshot creation and transferal.

As for the btrfs file system itself, the unit of backup is a subvolume.
Creation of snapshots for subvolumes is performed on an on demand basis,
that is, only if new data is detected to be available on the respective
subvolume a new snapshot is taken.

The program reasons in terms of repositories. A repository is a
directory on a btrfs system which is used to contain the newly created
as well as already available snapshots. In terms of backup there are two
repositories involved: a source repository and a destination repository.
These repositories are kept in sync by performing an incremental
transfer of the files of a snapshot from the source to the destination.
On the destination repository, the snapshot will subsequently be
remanifested.


Examples
--------

Assuming the following directory layout where each of the directories is
a btrfs subvolume:                                                <br />
.                                                                 <br />
├── backup                                                        <br />
├── snapshots                                                     <br />
└── subvolume                                                     <br />

The idea is that 'snapshots' will be the source repository, 'backup'
will be the destination repository, and 'subvolume' is the btrfs
subvolume to backup. In order to create a backup, use the following
command:

``$ btrfs-backup --subvolume=subvolume/ snapshots/ backup/``

The -s/--subvolume option can be supplied multiple times in order to
perform a backup of multiple subvolumes.

Commit message:

Introduce restore functionality
Until now it was possible only to backup data. The process of
restoration had to be done manually.
This change introduces support for automated restoration of snapshots.
Note that for now we do not recreate the original subvolume from which
the snapshot was taken -- such an approach is subject to a future
change. Restoration can be triggered by supplying the -r/--restore
option to the program. In such a case the script searches for the most
recent snapshot in the given source repository and copies it to the
destination (if it does not already exist).

btrfs-backup/README.md, after:

btrfs-backup
============

Purpose
-------

**btrfs-backup** is a program that can be used to backup data from one
or multiple btrfs file systems. It relies on the btrfs(8) utility
program to perform its job and provides a very simple interface for
quick btrfs snapshot creation and transferal.

As for the btrfs file system itself, the unit of backup is a subvolume.
Creation of snapshots for subvolumes is performed on an on demand basis,
that is, only if new data is detected to be available on the respective
subvolume a new snapshot is taken.

The program reasons in terms of repositories. A repository is a
directory on a btrfs system which is used to contain the newly created
as well as already available snapshots. In terms of backup there are two
repositories involved: a source repository and a destination repository.
These repositories are kept in sync by performing an incremental
transfer of the files of a snapshot from the source to the destination.
On the destination repository, the snapshot will subsequently be
remanifested.


Examples
--------

Assuming the following directory layout where each of the directories is
a btrfs subvolume:                                                <br />
.                                                                 <br />
├── backup                                                        <br />
├── snapshots                                                     <br />
└── subvolume                                                     <br />

The idea is that 'snapshots' will be the source repository, 'backup'
will be the destination repository, and 'subvolume' is the btrfs
subvolume to backup.

### Backup
In order to create a backup, use the following command:

``$ btrfs-backup --subvolume=subvolume/ snapshots/ backup/``

The -s/--subvolume option can be supplied multiple times in order to
perform a backup of multiple subvolumes.

### Restore
To restore the latest snapshot for the given subvolume from the backup,
the following command can be used:

``$ btrfs-backup --restore --subvolume=subvolume/ backup/ snapshots/``
